
cronjobber(8)		  BSD System Manager’s Manual		 cronjobber(8)

NAME
     cronjobber — cron job wrapper

SYNOPSIS
     cronjobber −n jobname −s statedir −c job [−D jobdir] [−r maxbackoff]
		[−x checker] [−e var=val] [−m umask] [−t timeout] [−k signo]
		[−5 crash‐subject] [−S fail‐subject] [−F from] [−T to]
		[−M sendmail] [−a age] [−l] [−h] [−V]

DESCRIPTION
     cronjobber is a wrapper providing cron jobs with the ability to log each
     run, to timeout long running or hung jobs, to randomize startup times,
     and to selectively mail job output.  In normal usage, a crontab(5) entry
     invokes cronjobber, which then invokes your job.  The following options
     are recognized:

     −n jobname
	     Short name for this job.  Used in mail subject lines and error
	     messages to identify this job.

     −s statedir
	     Name of directory used to hold job state and logs.  This direc‐
	     tory must exist and must be writable by the crontab owner.  It
	     must also support fcntl(2) locking.

     −c job  Path to actual job to run, and any arguments.  cronjobber passes
	     this string unmodified to a shell to execute.  Path is relative
	     to jobdir.  If no jobdir is specified, path will be relative to
	     HOME.  It is probably best to specify the full path to the job.

     −D jobdir
	     Change to jobdir before invoking the job.	If −D is not given,
	     then the value of HOME is used.  If HOME is not set, then the
	     password entry for the effective user id is used.

     −r maxbackoff
	     Maximum random backoff time.  If not specified, the job will be
	     executed immediately.  Otherwise, cronjobber will wait for a ran‐
	     dom time between 0 and maxbackoff seconds to execute the job.

     −x checker
	     Path to checker script relative to statedir.  See below for the
	     checker API.

     −e var[=val]
	     Modify environment passed to job and to checker.  A minimal envi‐
	     ronment is constructed and passed to the job and to the checker.
	     This includes HOME, LOGNAME, PATH, SHELL, and USER.  Additional
	     variables may be included by using the −e flag.  If the argument
	     to −e is just a variable name without an equals, then the value
	     of that variable at cronjobber run time will be included in the
	     made‐up environment.  If the argument has an equals, but no
	     value, then the variable will be set, but empty in the made‐up
	     environment.  Otherwise if a value is provided, that will be the
	     value set in the made‐up environment.

	     Multiple environment variables can be set by using multiple −e
	     flags.

     −m umask
	     Set umask before invoking job.  Use the normal octal representa‐
	     tion.

     −t timeout
	     Attempt to kill job after timeout seconds.  If no timeout is
	     given, the job may run indefinitely.  The default signal is
	     SIGTERM, but this may be changed with the −k flag.  It is best to
	     test that timeouts actually work on your system.  You may have to
	     change the signal number because different shells may ignore cer‐
	     tain signals.

     −k signo
	     If the −r flag was given to enable a job timeout signal, then
	     send signal signo rather than the default SIGTERM.  signo must be
	     numeric.

     −5 crash‐subject
	     If cronjobber discovers the previous instance of itself has
	     crashed (the log is still present), it will send a message with a
	     subject "crashed" and the jobname.  You can change this subject
	     with the −5 flag.

     −S fail‐subject
	     If the checker decides the job has failed, cronjobber will send a
	     message with a subject "failed", and the jobname.	You can change
	     this subject with the −S flag.

     −F From
	     Set the envelope sender and From: header to From.

     −T To   Send crash and error messages to To.  To send to multiple recipi‐
	     ents, use multiple −T flags.

     −M sendmail
	     Specify exact path to sendmail.  cronjobber will check MAILER or
	     the PATH provided by cron(8) for sendmail.  This path may not
	     include sendmail, so it is best to spell it out with −M.

     −a age  cronjobber removes log files older than age seconds.  age may be
	     suffixed by s, m, h or d to indicate seconds, minutes, hours or
	     days, respectively.  For example, use 7d to specify a week.

     −l      List command line arguments.  Parse command line, print the
	     results and exit.

     −h      Print usage and exit.

     −V      Print version and exit.

CHECKER API
     The job of the checker script is to decide whether or not to email the
     output of the latest job run.  It does this by looking at the output log
     and exiting 0 or 1.  When the checker is invoked, its environment looks
     like this:

     Current directory
	     The checker will be invoked from within the statedir passed to
	     cronjobber with the −s flag.

     Environment
	     The checker will inherit the same minimal environment passed to
	     the job, plus one of the following variables: WEXITSTATUS,
	     WTERMSIG or WSTATUS.  If the job exited normally, WEXITSTATUS
	     will hold the job exit status.  Otherwise if the job was termi‐
	     nated by a signal then WTERMSIG will hold the signal number.  If
	     WSTATUS is set, there might be a bug in cronjobber on your plat‐
	     form.

     Standard input
	     The checker’s standard input will be the job’s log file.

     Standard out and standard error
	     stdout and stderr are not redirected, so any output from the
	     checker will result in cron sending mail to the crontab owner.

     Command line
	     No command line arguments are passed to the checker in the cur‐
	     rent version.

     The checker should exit 0 if the job was successful and no mail should be
     sent.  Otherwise exit 1 to have the job output emailed to the recipients
     passed with the −T flag(s).

ENVIRONMENT
     HOME    Default jobdir.

     LOGNAME
	     Used to determine default mail recipient.

     MAILER  Default location of sendmail.

     SHELL   The value of SHELL is used to when invoking the job.  If SHELL is
	     not set, then /bin/sh is used.  The job is invoked as the −c
	     argument to the shell.

     USER    Used to determine default mail recipient.	Takes precedence over
	     LOGNAME.

FILES
     Within the statedir the following files are significant:

     lock    Lock file used to prevent multiple instances from running at
	     once.

     log     Current log file, stdout and stderr of the job itself.  If this
	     file exists, then there is an instance of the job running, or
	     cronjobber was killed before it could rotate the log file.  A
	     killed log file will be sent in a "crashed" message the next time
	     cronjobber runs.

     log.timestamp
	     When the job and the checker have finished, the log file is
	     renamed with a timestamp.	The timestamp is in the form YYYYmmd‐
	     dHHMMss.  Normally the timestamp is the job start time.  But if
	     cronjobber crashed and the log had to be cleaned up, the time‐
	     stamp will be the mtime of the log file.

EXIT STATUS
     cronjobber will exit 0 if it finished successfully, 1 otherwise.  Note
     that the exit value of the job and the checker do not influence the exit
     value of cronjobber.  Also note that cron(8) doesn’t really care about
     the exit value of a job anyway.

SEE ALSO
     cron(8), crontab(1), crontab(5), environ(7), sendmail(8), signal(3),
     umask(2)

AUTHOR
     Daniel Lawrence ⟨https://github.com/wavemechanics/cronjobber/⟩

BUGS
     Please report.

BSD				January 3, 2020 			   BSD
